---
layout:     post
title:      Piping So Much I Swear I'm Mario
date:       2015-06-20 15:08:00
summary:    Pipes in Rust
categories: rust
thumbnail: 
tags:
- pipes
- shell
- rust
---
As you might know I'm working on shell that you can find the source code for [here](https://github.com/mgattozzi/Rusty).
I've been trying to implement pipes for the longest time and just have never
gotten them to work in Rust for whatever reason. I detail that in [post](https://www.reddit.com/r/rust/comments/3azfie/how_to_pipe_one_process_into_another/) I put
in the rust subreddit today. I even managed to find a solution for it today
though it does use an unsafe block which I'm not exactly happy about but for
now it works until I find a safer way to do this. Here's the code:

{% highlight rust %}
use std::process::*;
use std::os::unix::io::AsRawFd;
use std::os::unix::io::FromRawFd;
	#[test]
	fn pipes(){
		//The stdout function makes sure that ouput
		//is piped and a child process is spawned
		//so that the right conversions can take 
		//place in the following unsafe block
		let cmd = Command::new("ls").arg("/")
				.stdout(Stdio::piped()) 
				.spawn();			
		unsafe{ 
			//Makes cmd into a raw fd that the Stdio 
			//struct can read from and then make it 
			//act as the input for the command that
			//is executed.
			let cmd2 = Command::new("grep").arg("etc")
				.stdin(Stdio::from_raw_fd(cmd 
				.ok().unwrap()				 
				.stdout.unwrap()			
				.as_raw_fd()))			
				.output().ok();		
			assert_eq!("etc",String::from_utf8(cmd2.unwrap()).unwrap().trim());
		}
	}
{% endhighlight %}

This was a test so using ok() and unwrap() is alright as I know what the inputs
are though I would suggest that not being the case usually. I still have some
places in my own code where I need to clean that up but did this so that
I could get it working as a proof of concept.

###Conclusion
It seems at this point in time piping processes might be unsafe. There is
a work around using raw fd (there are equivalent methods for Windows if you
need them) as a way to pipe the outputs of one program call into the input of
another. Sadly Rust's documentation is a bit lacking in the matter. Hopefully
this will be of use to someone if they need to do this in the future.

Other Relevant Links:
- [Stdio Docs](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/process/struct.Stdio.html)
- [Command Docs](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/process/struct.Command.html)
